=====
Essay
=====

------------
Introduction
------------

I love telling people that the reason I came to Oregon State Univerity
was to create open source software. As soon as I was enrolled, I did
everything in my power to get a job at Oregon State University's Open
Source Lab. This led me to become a core contributor to the Ganeti Web
Manager project at the OSUOSL.

Knowing that Oregon State had such a strong interest in open source
software made me excited to be a student here, but  when I learned that
the university's interest in open source wasn't as strong as I realized,
I was dismayed; Oregon State University doesn't have an open source degree.

That is why I have created this plan for a Bachelor of Science in
Free/Open Source Software Development. A degree which will provide me
with the skills to communicate well with other cultures, quickly resolve
disputes, and effectively manage a small group of developers.

----
Body
----

- communicate well with other cultures

Open Source development is done over the internet between people of
varying cultural backgrounds. The first summer working on GWM the OSL
participated in Google Code-In. One of our main contributers from the
program was pbnan from Poland. It was not easy communicating back and
forth about what we expected from the issues and what he had done. If I
had a background in communication, we could have better explained our
expectation to someone from another culture.

- resolve disputes effectively

Open source project generally contain conflicts and differing opinions
of implementation or importance of a feature. grnet did not agree with
the choice of caching objects, and wanted the feature to be optional. We
disagreed. There was no compromise. grnet 'took their ball and left'
forking from GWM at 0.5. If I had better communication skills I could
have worked as an intermediary between grnet and the developers on the
issue. 

- manage small group of developers

A very common trend in open source software is that the development is
done by a small group of dedicated volunteers. In order for that group
to work well together though, they need a leader who is able to resolve
internal disputes and keep things on track.

----------
Conclusion
----------

All of these skills are not taught in the current Computer Science
curriculum. 

----------

Communication takes up a large portion of the open source development 
process.

Though communication is key to other disciplines as well, open source 
development is unique in that most of the communication is
conducted online across cultural boundries.

This is why I feel an Applied Computer Science degree in Open Source 
Development should be focused on acquiring a depth of communication 
skills. 


