Trevor Bramwell                             Wed Oct 23 23:58:33 PDT 2013

                       The Abuse of DMCA Requests

The Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection for
digital copyrighted material. Through this act anyone can submit a
request for the removal of content from a website. This happened
recently with a game review created by TotalBiscuit. The review was over
the game "Day One: Garry's Incident" by developer Wild Games Studios
(WSG).

This review was not pretty by any means, but of the 5 other reviews on
YouTube.com that were also not pretty, it had the highest views. Thus
WSG sent a DMCA request for the video to be taken down do to "monetizing
game footage".

A few weeks before this, TotalBiscuit had sent an email asking WSG if he
could create a monotized video review of their game. This is how the
review industry works. WSG agreed and sent him a copy of the game. This
was all documented in their emails.

Then WSG sends a DMCA request, and the video is taken off line. In the
after math TotalBiscuit puts up another video, without any game footage,
explaining the situation. It goes viral. A few days later the original
video is back online, and WSG's reputation is in the drain.

Was it ethical for WSG to use provisions of copyright law to have the
video take offline? I will answer this question by using Kantianism and
Rule Utilitarianism. Then I will make a moral judgement based upon these
outcomes The Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection
for digital copyrighted material. Through this act anyone can submit a
request for the removal of content from a website. This happened
recently with a game review created by TotalBiscuit. The review was over
the game "Day One: Garry's Incident" by developer Wild Games Studios
(WSG).

This review was not pretty by any means, but of the 5 other reviews on
YouTube.com that were also not pretty, it had the highest views. Thus
WSG sent a DMCA request for the video to be taken down do to "monetizing
game footage".

A few weeks before this, TotalBiscuit had sent an email asking WSG if he
could create a monotized video review of their game. This is how the
review industry works. WSG agreed and sent him a copy of the game. This
was all documented in their emails.

Then WSG sends a DMCA request, and the video is taken off line. In the
after math TotalBiscuit puts up another video, without any game footage,
explaining the situation. It goes viral. A few days later the original
video is back online, and WSG's reputation is in the drain.

------- Maybe I should rephrase this from the perspective of TB -------

Was it ethical for WSG to use provisions of copyright law to have the
video take offline? I will answer this question by using Kantianism and
Rule Utilitarianism. Then I will make a moral judgement based upon these
outcomes

------------------------------ Kantianism -----------------------------

Kantianism would say that what WSG was not ethical.


By the first formulation of the categorical imperative: It is okay to
use DMCA to take down content that is not yours.

By the second formulation of the categorical imperative: WSG used
TotalBiscuit as a means to an end of selling more games, by reducing
negative perception.

------------------------- Rule Utilitarianism ------------------------

Rule Utilitarianism would say that what WSG was ethical.
